# ESP32 ArtNetNode

## Overview

This is a firmware for the ESP32, which turns it into an ArtNetNode. It receives UDP ArtNetData via ethernet and produces DMX512 signals on seven output pins. It can be configured through a TCP command interface. It runs three threads: A UDP thread to process ArtNet data, A TCP thread for configuration and a DMX thread for signal generation. Settings are saved to non-volatile storage. Reliability and perfomance are from upmost importance.

## DMX signal generation

The DMX512 signals are generated in software through bit banging. One of the two ESP32 cores needs to be reserved for DMX512 signal generation. On this core, all FreeRTOS safety and watchdog features need to be disabled, for full bitbang control. DMX512 has a baud rate of 250k and the clock is generated by waiting for specific CPU cycles. It is possible to reduce the number of DMX channels that are generated to increase the frame rate. The signal generation can be synced to any of the input universes, or is free running.

## ArtNet and Network Implementation

The ESP shall try to optain an IP address via DHCP, but should fallback to a link local address if no DHCP is available. It holds a virtual patch of 7 ArtNet universes, that can be routed to any of the seven outputs. The universe patch as well as any other settings are configured via a simple raw TCP command interface. The device shall respond to ArtPoll messages. The firmware shall not use any dependecies and interface the ESP IDF directly. 